Fogo do you know what that means well in
the LaCrosse word it stands for
something very specific and something
one of the Bulldogs has become really
good at doing Fogo says a face-off get
off Connor Maki is the Fogo guy comes in
for the face-off and then gets off the
field to lacrosse they a specialized
player who's not on the field long but
the impact isn't measured by time plays
its measured by possession secured and
Mathew is a master at winning face offs
in our sport it's one guy can be that
dominant and he's that important it's
the game inside the game and everyone on
the field knows whichever team wins the
faceoff has a better chance to score
simply because you can't score if you
don't have the ball obviously the main
objective like on every face off is the
wind possession the ball for your team
so the first thing I'm doing is snapping
down with my top hand over the ball I'll
punch in my left hand to a 45-degree
angle hopefully this wins we control the
ball here obviously the other guy's head
is coming down on top years the same
time so a lot of times when you see the
ball stuck in there it's people
competing to get the top of it the top
edge of their stick down over the ball
and that's only like a third of the
battle though because once you get that
you obviously don't win possession of
your team until you safely have it on
the offensive end from there I want to
lift my left hand to pinch the ball in
the plastic draw it away from my
defender and then come out the front in
college a lot of the guys are fast so it
comes down not just to like beating your
man off the whistle but also figuring
out different ways to counter moves and
other guys do and just be very
fundamental kind of picking up the ball
can get kind of crazy and competitive
and you can lose the things that you
practice a little bit out there but it
really comes down at preparation and
then execution so how good is Maki at
this faceoff thing well in a game
against cornell earlier this season he
won the face often scored a goal all in
three seconds shots goal it's fun when
it works out that way but it really was
like preparation I think like we a
couple games leading up to that we
started to like win more of the face
offs and start getting some possessions
but we thought we could do a better job
generating offense from that position
because a lot of times when you win the
ball forward you have an extra man
advantage so we wanted to we drilled
that a lot that week and was fortunate
that it kind of happened on the first
play of the game it by the way tied a
record
for fastest goals scored I had no idea
was a record that people really kept
track of that but I think it's just
slide it right up after the game but I
was yeah like everyone I guess was
excited Macke could take up to 30 face
offs in the course of the game and make
no mistake about it it takes its toll
each faceoff is like a mini wrestling
match there's wear and tear on the body
through banging on each other all the
time so it's like sumo wrestling in
practice you know an immediate yeah a
little loss we've definitely like across
a lot of mental toughness similar to
like you know I've wrestled a little bit
when I was younger yeah it takes a
physically and mentally tough player to
go out there and time and time again win
face offs and that's what Mackey's
coaches and teammates say he is mentally
and physically tough Connors a
tremendous athlete you know and he's
he's done a lot to hone his craft